
1. What qualifies as damaged or defective products?
Product is not in working condition or has visible cuts, crush, tear, broken parts, dents or scratches.
Product seal is broken and/or there is a leakage.
Product arrived with parts or accessories missing.
Product arrived in a different size or color than what was ordered.
Item does not match product description.
Entire product is missing, but the box is not tampered.
Products is expired.
Dead on Arrival / Screen Damaged.
Product doesn't meet expectations.
Product box damaged - packaging issue, Transportation issue.
The correct box contained incorrect item.
Item missing-box tampered.
Product is fake / counterfeit.
Product has a different seal.
2. What to do if you receive a damaged or defective product?
If you have received a damaged, defective or if you are not happy with the product quality, you can return or replace the product. Note:

Items listed on Amazon.in that are identified as 'returnable' on the product detail page and within the 'return window' period. Products eligible for return will have a logo on the product details page which mentions the return window and return category as per the product. (Example: 10 Days Returnable, 7 Days Return & Exchange, etc.). Visit Returns Policy to learn more.
Replacement or exchange of products is based on the availability of products.
There are different processes of return and replacement for products fulfilled by Amazon and products fulfilled by third-party (Marketplace) sellers .
To know the seller details, check the product detail page. Visit Return/Replacement FAQs page to learn more.
3. How to return a damaged product Fulfilled by Amazon?

Go to Your Orders.
Select the product that you want to replace.
Click on Return/ Replace items.
Choose a reason to replace.
Continue and proceed as per the on-screen instructions.
Refer to the How to schedule a Return page for instructions.

Note:


We might require a clear image for verifying that the product is damaged or defective. Visit the Add Photos: Frequently Asked Questions page to learn how to upload images.
Item will be picked up as per scheduled pickup date and time, which will be communicated via email and visible in Your Orders.
If your address is not covered by our courier partners, you will need to return the item using any courier. Visit Return Pick-up and Self-Ship Guidelines to learn more.
4. How to return a damaged product fulfilled by a third-party seller?

Go to Your Orders.
Choose an item that you want to return or replace.
Select Contact seller. You will be directed to the Seller Messaging Assistant.
Select the appropriate option and start the conversation.
If a seller fails to address your query in three business days, the Amazon A-to-z Guarantee is available to you.

Note:
The following items and situations are not covered under the Amazon A-to-Z Guarantee:


Digital merchandise
Credit card payments where the issuing bank has initiated a chargeback
If the product you received is a gift order and the outer box is damaged, you can place a request for replacement.

Some products may not be eligible for return. Check the returns policy for more details.
Returning items with personal data: If you're returning a mobile phone, camera, or any other storage device, remember to remove any passwords and any personal data contained in it before returning it. Don't send personal accessories not originally included with the item when purchased, for example, cases or external memory cards purchased separately.
5. How to replace a damaged product?

Go to Your Orders.
Select the product that you want to replace.
Click on Return/ Replace items.
Choose a reason to replace.
Continue and proceed as per on-screen instructions.
Replacement will not be possible if the item you selected is out of stock. In such cases you can return the product and a refund will generated.

6. How will the refunded money be credited?
The refund timeline will depend upon the mode of refund chosen by you. You can choose to receive the refund in your Amazon Pay Balance, original payment method or to your bank account.


If you had chosen “Pay on delivery” while placing an order, you can choose refund to Amazon Pay Balance or Original payment method.
For Amazon Pay balance, the refund will be credited to your Amazon Pay-Balance Account.
For bank account refunds, ensure that you add your bank account details where you wish to receive the refund. The refund should be processed via NEFT/IMPS and credited to your bank account by 5 business days from the date of refund initiation.
To add your bank account through website,

Go to Your Orders.
Click on the order you want to return.
Select Return or Replacement items option.
Select 'Refund to your bank account'.
Select 'Choose a bank account'.
Select 'Add a new bank account', and enter your bank account details.

Available refund method	Refund Time Frame
Amazon Delivered orders (After the return is received by Amazon)	Seller-Fulfilled orders (After seller notifies Amazon of receipt of return)
Prepaid Orders
Amazon Pay Balance*	4 hours
Credit Card/ Debit Card	5 Business Days	5 Business Days
Net Banking Account (Credited to Bank Account)
UPI Linked Bank Account	5 Business Days
Pay on Delivery Orders
NEFT to Bank Account	5 Business Days	5 Business Days
Amazon Pay Balance*	4 hours
Paper Cheque	Up to 10 business Days


7. What is the time window for initiating a return or replacement?
The time window for initiating a replacement is the same as the return window for that product category. For example, if the product has a return window of 30 days, a replacement will also have to be initiated within the same period of 30 days. Visit Replacement Policy to learn more.

8. What to do if renewed products are damaged?
If you have received a damaged renewed product, you can initiate a return or replacement through the Your Orders page. You will be required to upload all sided images of the product received. Make sure the images are clicked with the product placed at least 8 inches from the camera. Along with the images, ensure to provide the invoice details. To know more about renewed products, check the Amazon Renewed page.

9. What can I do if I receive a wrong item?
You can return or request for replacement of the wrong item. Please ensure the item is in its original condition, and still in its packaging to be eligible for a return. For more information, you can refer to the Help page: Wrong Product Delivered.


1. What can I return?
Items listed on Amazon.in that are identified as 'returnable' on the product detail page and within the 'return window' period. Products eligible for return will have a logo on product details page which mentions the return window and return category as per the product. (Example: 10 Days Returnable, 7 Days Return & Exchange etc.).
To know about the "non-returnable" categories and the specific return windows for categories eligible for return, please refer to Amazon.in Returns policy. This page will have more information on what kind of products are returnable within the applicable return window and how to report an issue with Smartphone, Tablet, Laptop, Television, Air Conditioner, Refrigerator, Washing Machine and Microwave.

Products that are physically damaged, defective, has missing parts, or are different from their description in the product details page are eligible for return. You may also return products if you there is a change of mind and you do not wish to keep the item with you. Refer to the Damaged or Defective Product - FAQ page for more information.
Items with missing parts. You may request for a refund -
If the item is missing and the box is tampered
If you have received an empty package
If part of the order was missing (accessory)
To validate your identity for refunds, you may need to share identity proof with us . Please see our Privacy Policy to understand how your data will be processed. Please DO NOT share Aadhar data.

Note:
Sometimes the order is split into multiple shipments. This means you won’t get all orders in one go. The packages would be delivered to you according to the date mentioned on 'Your Orders' page.
If the bookmark is missing from the book, please be informed that although we try to include bookmarks with several book orders, you may not receive it for every book.
2. What are non-returnable items?
Some items of consumable nature (like wax candles, pet food and grooming products, cleaning products, fertilizers, etc.) are non returnable. For a full list of non-returnable categories and products, and the specific return windows for categories eligible for return, visit Amazon.in Returns policy .

3. How to return items?

To return an eligible item:


Sign in to Amazon.in
Go to Your Orders.
Select the item you want to return or replace.
Select a reason from menu and follow on-screen instructions to continue.
Visit How to schedule a return to learn more.

Products fulfilled by third-party (Marketplace) sellers have the message "Sold and Shipped by (seller name)" on the product detail page. Visit Return orders placed with a Third-party seller page to learn more.

If a seller fails to address your query in three business days, you can file an A-to-Z Guarantee claim.

Additional return guidelines

Both your shipping address and the item must meet our return eligibility requirements.
If your address is not eligible for Pickup, a Self-Return option will be provided. For more details, visit Return Pick up and Self Ship Guidelines.
Once the return is processed, refund will be issued in accordance with Amazon.in Refund Policy.
For Pay on Delivery orders, refunds will be processed either to your bank account (via National Electronic Funds Transfer (NEFT)) or to your Amazon account (as Amazon Pay balance).
4. Where can I view status of return?
To view the status of return/refund:

Go to Your Orders.
Locale the order which your have returned and select Return/Refund status.
You can also manage your Returns from Returns Center.
5. How can I return a Gift?
For items eligible for refund or replacement as per return policy, you can also return the gift item in exchange for an Amazon Pay Gift Card (if the gift sender has sent a Gift Receipt to you). For guidance on returning a gift item using a gift receipt, visit Gift Receipts.

6. How can I return a Gift Card?
Gift cards once purchased cannot be cancelled or returned due to regulatory restrictions.

Please refer to Amazon Pay Gift Card page to know more about adding gift card balance to your account, redeeming a Gift card and restrictions.

7. Can my order be replaced?
You may request a replacement if your item:


Arrives damaged or defective
Doesn't match the product description on our website
Is missing parts or accessories"
It will be eligible for a free replacement if the product is available with the same seller. Visit Amazon.in Replacement Policy to learn more.

To know more about replacing Damaged/Defective products, visit Damaged, Defective Item FAQs.

8. Can the replacement be delivered to a different address.?
Replacement cannot be delivered to a different address. We recommend returning the item for a refund (if the product is eligible for return) and place a new order with the new address.

9. What can I do if I receive a wrong item?
You can return or request for replacement of the wrong item. Please ensure the item is in its original condition, and still in its packaging to be eligible for a return. For more information, you can refer to the Help page: Wrong Product Delivered.

10. How can I request a refund for the standard shipping charge?
If your original order was below ₹499, a ₹40 shipping fee applies. Since the replacement is sent via standard shipping and the original order didn't qualify for free shipping, the charge is non-refundable.

11. How can I request a refund for a refund/return due to missing warranty card/user manual in the package?
A refund or replacement isn't required for missing warranty cards or manuals. The invoice is sufficient to claim the warranty. You can check if these items are included by reviewing the "Included Components" or "What's in the Box" section, and the warranty card note under "About the Item" on the product page.

